it probably won't escaped your attention
that we've driven a few AMG's this year
that's because the remit of this show is
mainly to drive the most interesting and
exciting new cars an AMG seem to release
one of those every other week just now
and just to warn you there's another one
coming on Drive pretty soon but 2012
also marks the company's 40th
anniversary until they throw a little
party
it was mostly a tour of the factory and
a decent teaser what was coming soon
amongst other things the a45 hatchback a
faster SLS that we all know will be a
Black Series and I suspect an e63 coupet
sometime after the tour they said we
could drive some of the old cars over
the CLK Black Series an original c32
wagon a/c 55 and even a lovely C 36 and
there is also a hammer
I felt the back is a sleepy little
village northeast of Stuttgart drive
through it and you'd have little idea
that it's home to some genuinely
deranged machinery in fact it's mostly
full of apple orchards a fact reflected
in the AMG logo the main site is now
split between vehicle research and
development engine production and
specialist interior fitting each motor
is hand assembled in a workshop worthy
of a James Bond baddies lair people
wander around clean uniforms and the
further you move towards one end of the
building the more the assembled bits of
metal look like engines each engine
maker has his own name plaque that is
bolted onto each motor
the dyno room is a kind of engine
torture chamber this is the new a 45s
four-cylinder turbo motor going through
a full load cycle after this did a
virtual lap of the ring and then it went
back to being red-hot again
punters who want extra-special interiors
or widgets can have them done here at
extra cost and there's always something
interesting hanging around this time
it's the SLS e-cell and it's spanning
carbon chassis but enough of walking and
talking I wanted to drive one of these
old cars and despite all of them being
covetable when there's a hammer in the
house nothing else matters so we elbowed
the others out of the way and walked in
slow motion
naturally past the display of every
production AMG engine and went for a
drive
in 1986 even you were very very rich
wanted to go very very fast and wanted
four seats there weren't many options
you could buy an m5 but then m5 but
probably too common for you you were
very very rich what you could do is come
to AMG and say I'd like to take a w12
for paddy class please and go a bit
quicker and then they could do something
very special for you what they created
was a car that became known as the
hammer which to me is still the most
evocative best sounding name for a car
ever and I'm driving a hammer this is in
my top 10 cars I just love it it is
utterly outrageous a massive v8 4-speed
automatic gearbox
locking differential and the wide body
on it to just juddering with excitement
so here we go hammer in the weight
what's it like to drive um it's a
mixture of the surprisingly good and the
surprisingly bad I'd forgotten that the
sadie's from this era don't when you
have a throttle pedal they have this
sort of piece of wood down that you've
got a kick as hard as you can for
anything to happen so that's
disconcerting the throttle feels like
it's got a really old spring on it and a
cable that's stuck it hasn't they all
just feel like that from the era the
steering surprisingly nice it's light
and of course being an old car it has
this lovely thin steering wheel which
should really really like on the hands
gearbox Wow transmissions have come on a
long way kick down down two gears to
funk and then fourth gear when it comes
in comes in with a massive boom back
inside it's just like it's like a grotto
in honor of tubs and Crocket we've got
buttons everywhere we've got nineteen
way electric seats although we've got
manual wing modes which is a bit odd
it's just an utter joy the classic
Mercedes dashboard I don't know I just
love being in it if I had to choose a
car now to drive from the UK to the mine
I'd go in a hammer it's just fantastic
it's subtle enough so that only people
that know what it is look at it and
don't think that a horrible KITT car and
the noise
there we go yeah I'm kind of in heaven
now
you